Release/v0.36.0 (#2340)
grafana/k6: release notes/v0.36.0.md

k6 v0.36.0 is here! 🎉 It introduces a couple new features which enhance its usability, and includes a bunch of fixes and the result of refactoring ongoing efforts.

In total, we have closed 27 issues.

## New Features!

### Sourcemaps support ([#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082))

> Following [#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082), k6's JS interpreter now has support for [Source Maps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Debugger/How_to/Use_a_source_map). In the context of k6 scripts, it ensures that exceptions thrown from imported modules are reported with correct line information; as is described in [#1804](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1804).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following [#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082), k6's now has support for [Source Maps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Debugger/How_to/Use_a_source_map). This means that it will now try to load sourcemaps from the filesystems or from inside the script, based on the standard-ish `//# sourceMappingURL=` comments.  Additionally as k6 internally uses babel to transform ES6+ scripts to ES5.1+, it will now use babel's ability to generate sourcemaps, including combining with previously generated ones, to report correct line numbers. This should fix [#1804](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1804), but some problems are more tweaking are expected.
```

Author: Thanks a lot for this 🙇🏻 Greatly appreciated 😸

Reviewer 2: Note that there's a double "are" now, one of which should probably be an "and":

> but some problems are more tweaking are expected.

should read "but some problems and more tweaking are expected."

(And I think that there should be a comma after "Additionally[,] as k6")

Author: Good catch! Thanks 🙇🏻

Author: Rephrased as "; however, we anticipate some more issues will arise, and further tweaking will be necessary"

Thus, given an `imported.js` module such as:
```javascript
export function f1() {
  throw "line 2";
}

export function f2() {
  throw "line 6";
}

export function f3() {
  throw "line 10";
}
```

and a k6 test script importing it as such:
```javascript
import { f2 } from "./imported.js"

export default function() {
  f2();
}
```

k6 would indeed report the exception at the correct line in `imported.js`, with an output along the lines of:
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:6:2(2))
        at file:///some/path/loadtest.js:4:2(4)
        at native  executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace

> ```

Reviewer: maybe also show the previous result?

Reviewer: I see that you resolved this and :+1: but I don't see where you show the previous result, @oleiade

Author: I have refactored this section to illustrate what the output would have been in previous versions, and comparing it to `v0.36.0`'s output. Let me know if that fits what you expected 🤞🏻

if (__VU == 1) {
  exec.test.abort();
}

export default function() {}
```

### k6 inspect extended output ([#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279))

Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, the configuration k6 derived from the execution context, and will also expose the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields.

### Forcing HTTP/1 protocol ([#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222))

Thanks to the work of [@sjordhani22](https://github.com/sjordhani22), [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force k6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 

It can be done by setting the `http2client=0` value in the `GODEBUG` environment variable:

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**Nota Bene**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Bugs Fixed!

> * We had a long-standing issue ([#1771](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771)) making opening large files in the context of a k6 script somewhat unreliable under specific conditions in the past. This has now been addressed by [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314).

Reviewer: This also has a breaking change component where now some scripts that would've worked in the past won't now.

I would argue this should be expaneded explaining the full change - "opening new files is now only possibly in init context" and explaining why open can only be used in the init context and what is trying to do - more info [here](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/557#issuecomment-376115100)

Author: Good point! Thanks a lot for the pointers too 🙇🏻

## Maintenance

- `v0.36.0` marks the switch to a new JS module's internal API. Most of our official JS modules have now been ported to this new version, which should make the process of developing modules easier and more streamlined in the future. See for more details: [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).
- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code.
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api.v1)client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

> - We have updated our Goja dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238)

Author: Yes, I was hesitant to mention it between the lines, but fell back to the standard technique of addressing potential objections before they arise. Would you prefer if I removed this mention, or if I was explicit about it?

> - We have updated our Goja dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238)

Reviewer: I am for being more explicit about this

k6 v0.36.0 is here! 🎉 It introduces a couple of new features which enhance its usability, includes a number of fixes, and the result of ongoing refactoring efforts.

> 
> In total, we have closed 27 issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Not sure if this is accurate, or if it is, it's a very subjective number. A lot of the things we changed this cycle were internal refactoring, some of which didn't have an issue or a bunch were under the same issue. Since it's subjective and doesn't really inform users of anything, I'm not sure if should be even mentioned :thinking:

Author: Makes sense, I simply updated the number that was present in `v0.35.0`. Will remove it indeed 👍🏻

k6 v0.36.0 is here! 🎉 It introduces a couple of new features which enhance its usability, includes a number of fixes, and the result of ongoing refactoring efforts.

## New Features!

> ### Sourcemaps support ([#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082))

Reviewer 4: This section will likely need an addition of the fresh fix from yesterday https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345

Author: How would you phrase and summarize that? 😸

Reviewer 4: I think just adding a phrase about the file limit will suffice. "Note that in case the file size of input is greater than X byes, generation of source maps is disabled with a warning." Maybe add something about reasoning too, ~ "to avoid OOM after babel transform"?
CC @MStoykov could you please check :slightly_smiling_face: 

Going by some comments in #2345, `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` should not be advertised. But in this fix, behavior of a new feature changes depending on input and IMO, users should be warned to keep an eye on that.

Reviewer 3: We can mention `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` here, with the same NB that `GODEBUG` change had, that it's a temporary workaround that will probably go away in a future k6 version.

Reviewer: It only gets disabled in/for babel, other than that it works. So more accurately

"Note that if a file size is greater than 250kb and the internal babel is needed, babel will not generate source map. This is because during testing it was found this takes 3x-4x more memory leading to OOMs on bigger inputs. A pregenerated sourcemap will always be loaded." 

for some numbers that I don't know if we want to add but `sample/http_2.js` with it's body copied to be 248kb takes 44s and 2270320 bytes of memory or 42s and 967132 bytes of memory, with and without sourcemaps.

> Following [#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082), k6's now has support for [Source Maps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Debugger/How_to/Use_a_source_map). k6 will now try to load sourcemaps either from the filesystem(s) or from inside the script, based on the standard(-ish) `//#sourceMappingURL=` comments. Furthermore, as k6 internally uses Babel to transform ES6+ scripts to ES5.1+, it will now make use of its ability to generate sourcemaps, including combining with previously generated ones, to report correct line numbers. This should fix [#1804](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1804); however, we anticipate some more issues will arise, and further tweaking will be necessary.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Following [#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082), k6 now has support for [Source Maps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Debugger/How_to/Use_a_source_map). k6 will try to load sourcemaps either from the filesystem(s) or from inside the script, based on the standard(-ish) `//#sourceMappingURL=` comments. Furthermore, as k6 internally uses Babel to transform ES6+ scripts to ES5.1+, it will now make use of its ability to generate sourcemaps, including combining with previously generated ones, to report correct line numbers. This should fix [#1804](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1804); however, we anticipate some more issues will arise, and further tweaking will be necessary.
```

if (__VU == 1) {
  exec.test.abort();
}

export default function() {}
```

### k6 inspect extended output ([#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279))

Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, by deriving k6's configuration from the execution context, and including  the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields to the output.

### Forcing HTTP/1 protocol ([#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222))

Thanks to the work of [@sjordhani22](https://github.com/sjordhani22), [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force k6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 

It can be done by setting the `http2client=0` value in the `GODEBUG` environment variable:

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**Nota Bene**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Extensions

> `v0.36.0` marks the switch of some of our internal modules to [a new JavaScript extension API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). We expect this change to make the process of developing internal JavaScript modules and advanced JavaScript extensions easier and more streamlined in the future. Although this switch to a new API does not introduce breaking changes for existing extensions yet, we anticipate deprecating the current extension API at an undecided point in the future.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`v0.36.0` marks the switch of some of our internal modules to [a new JavaScript extension API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). We expect this change to make the process of developing internal JavaScript modules and advanced JavaScript extensions easier and more streamlined in the future. Although this switch to a new API does not introduce breaking changes for existing extensions yet, we anticipate deprecating the current extension API at some point in the future.
```
that's the usual form I think?

For more details, see: [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).

## Breaking changes

### Restricting file opening to init context

> Opening files is now restricted to the init context of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script. While it was somewhat possible, yet [unreliably](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771), to open files during other stages of the test in the past: [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario.

Reviewer 4: This is a bit hard to read so a re-phrasing suggestion:
```suggestion
Opening files is now restricted to the init context of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script. While it was somewhat possible to open files during other stages of the test in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario.
```

The following statement, unless the `arr.json` file is opened somewhere else, will now throw an error:
```javascript 
if (__VU >0) {
  JSON.parse(open("./arr.json"));
}
```

## Bugs Fixed!

* We addressed an issue uncovered by [our community](https://community.k6.io/t/v0-35-0-grpc-server-reflection-error/2383), which kept our users from using GRPC with multiple services definition in a single *proto* file. This issue was solved in [#2265](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2265).
* Thanks to the contribution of [@Resousse](https://github.com/Resousse), we've now updated k6's [`go-ntlmssp`](https://github.com/Azure/go-ntlmssp) dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

## Maintenance

- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code.

> - [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal external of dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal of external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.
```

* Thanks to the contribution of @Resousse, we've now updated k6's [`go-ntlmssp`](https://github.com/Azure/go-ntlmssp) dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

## Maintenance

- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code. It also revamped our Makefile, so the new `make ci-like-lint` target will run the exact same [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) version that will be used in our GitHub Actions CI pipeline.
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal of external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant REST API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

> - We have updated our [Goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja) dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We have updated our [Goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja) dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. Unfortunately, some of the new features are not always usable, yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. Which means that if babel needs to be used, optional chaining can't be. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238).
```

Thus, given an `imported.js` module such as:
```javascript
export function f1() {
  throw "line 2";
}

export function f2() {
  throw "line 6";
}

export function f3() {
  throw "line 10";
}
```

and a k6 test script importing it as such:
```javascript
import { f2 } from "./imported.js"

export default function() {
  f2();
}
```

Previous versions of k6 would report an error stack trace indicating an invalid line number in `imported.js` (10):
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:10:61(2))
        at file:///some/path/sourcemap.js:4:20(4) executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

Starting with `v0.36.0` and source maps support, k6 would now report the exception at the correct line in `imported.js`:
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:6:2(2))
        at file:///some/path/loadtest.js:4:2(4)
        at native executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

#### Temporary warning

> Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb**, and the internal Babel is needed: Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOM (standing for "Out Of Memory", a state in which the OS kills a process for using too much memory) on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the temporary `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT=524288` environment variable; which will be removed after we no longer rely on Babel ([#2296](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2296)). A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb** and the internal Babel is needed, Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOM (standing for "Out Of Memory", a state in which the OS kills a process for using too much memory) on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the temporary `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT=524288` environment variable; which will be removed after we no longer rely on Babel ([#2296](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2296)). A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).
```

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**N.B**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Extensions

`v0.36.0` marks the switch of some of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). We expect this change to make the process of developing internal JavaScript modules and advanced JavaScript extensions easier and more streamlined in the future. Although this switch to a new API does not introduce breaking changes for existing extensions yet, we anticipate deprecating the current extension API at an undecided point in the future.

For more details, see: [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).

## Breaking changes

### Restricting file opening to init context

> Opening files is now restricted to the [Init context](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/test-life-cycle/#init-and-vu-stages) of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script (`__VU==0`). While it was somewhat possible to open files *only* in other *VUs* (*e.g* `__VU==2`) in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario. This means that you can still open files only for some VUs, but you need to have opened all of those files in the initial VU (`__VU==0`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
VUs are now restricted to only `open()` files that were also opened in the [init context](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/test-life-cycle/#init-and-vu-stages) of the first VU - the one that was initialized to get the exported `options` from the JS script (`__VU==0`). While it was somewhat possible to open files *only* in other *VUs* (*e.g* `__VU==2`) in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario. This means that you can still open files only for some VUs, but you need to have opened all of those files in the initial VU (`__VU==0`).
```

Author: Cheers for that, it was tricky to write something that makes absolute sense myself 🙇🏻

* Thanks to the contribution of @Resousse, we've now updated k6's [`go-ntlmssp`](https://github.com/Azure/go-ntlmssp) dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

## Maintenance

- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code. It also revamped our Makefile, so the new `make ci-like-lint` target will run the exact same [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) version that will be used in our GitHub Actions CI pipeline.
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal of external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant REST API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

> - We have updated our Goja dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We have updated our [Goja](https://github.com/dop251/goja) dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238).
```

## New Features!

### Source Maps support ([#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082))

Following [#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082), k6 now has support for [Source Maps](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Debugger/How_to/Use_a_source_map). k6 will try to load source maps either from the file system(s) or from inside the script, based on the standard(-ish) `//#sourceMappingURL=` comments. Furthermore, as k6 internally uses Babel to transform ES6+ scripts to ES5.1+, it will now make use of its ability to generate source maps, including combining with previously generated ones, to report correct line numbers. This should fix [#1804](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1804); however, we anticipate some more issues will arise, and further tweaking will be necessary.

Thus, given an `imported.js` module such as:
```javascript
export function f1() {
  throw "line 2";
}

export function f2() {
  throw "line 6";
}

export function f3() {
  throw "line 10";
}
```

and a k6 test script importing it as such:
```javascript
import { f2 } from "./imported.js"

export default function() {
  f2();
}
```

> Previous versions of k6 would report an error stack trace indicating an invalid line number in `imported.js` (*10*):

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Previous versions of k6 would report an error stack trace indicating an invalid line number in `imported.js` (10):
```
The italic version seems rendered with a not perfect alignment, up to you

```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:10:61(2))
        at file:///some/path/sourcemap.js:4:20(4) executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

Starting with `v0.36.0` and source maps support, k6 would now report the exception at the correct line in `imported.js`:
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:6:2(2))
        at file:///some/path/loadtest.js:4:2(4)
        at native executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

#### Temporary warning

> Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb**, and the internal Babel is needed: Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOMs (Out Of Memory condition in which the OS kills a process for using too much memory) on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable. A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb**, and the internal Babel is needed: Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOM (out of memory) errors on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the temporary `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable, which will be removed after we no longer rely on Babel ([#2296](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/2296)). A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).
```

Reviewer: I would call OOMs ... errors, but yeah, it currently is a bit too long IMO as well. So maybe it's fine :shrug:

Author: Using the term error would be incorrect, though. OOMs are not errors. They are a condition, or state, that happens when are no pages of virtual memory pages available to fulfill a process' request (as a result of the `brk` syscall for instance), and the operating system must act (via its OOM manager).

Both [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Out_of_memory) and [kernel.org](https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand016.html) use the term *condition* or *status*.

> Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb**, and the internal Babel is needed: Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOMs (Out Of Memory condition in which the OS kills a process for using too much memory) on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` environment variable. A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that if a file size is greater than **250kb**, and the internal Babel is needed: Babel will not generate source map. This is because during internal testing it was found this takes *3x* to *4x* more memory, potentially leading to OOMs (Out Of Memory condition in which the OS kills a process for using too much memory) on bigger inputs. If required, you can control the accepted file size limit via the `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT=524288` environment variable. A pre-generated source map will always be loaded. For more details, check [#2345](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2345).
```
IIRC, this is the unique place where we are documenting `K6_DEBUG_SOURCEMAP_FILESIZE_LIMIT` so I think that an example of the expected value to use could help.

Author: Indeed, thanks for that 👍🏻

### Ability to abort tests ([#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093))

> Thanks to the contribution of [@gernest](https://github.com/gernest), k6 now has the ability to abort a test. [#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093) made the `k6/execution` expose the `test.abort()` function, which allows to immediately abort a k6 load test run with the exit code `108`. Note that aborting a test is also fully supported in k6 cloud, preserving the same user-experience for both local and cloud users. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Thanks to the contribution of [@gernest](https://github.com/gernest) ([#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093)), k6 now has the ability to abort a test run from within the test script. The newly added `test.abort()` function in the [`k6/execution` module](https://k6.io/docs/javascript-api/k6-execution/) allows k6 scripts to immediately abort the test execution - the VU that called it will abort immediately and any other VUs in the same or other instances (in the case of `k6 cloud`) will also be interrupted and abort soon after. Local `k6 run` tests will exit with a code of `108`, so this event can also be easily detected in a CI script. 
```

WDYT?

}

export function teardown() {
  console.log("teardown will still be called after test.abort()");
}
```

### k6 inspect extended output ([#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279))

Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, by deriving k6's configuration from the execution context, and including the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields in the output.

### Forcing HTTP/1 protocol ([#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222))

Thanks to the work of [@sjordhani22](https://github.com/sjordhani22), [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force k6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 

It can be done by setting the `http2client=0` value in the `GODEBUG` environment variable:

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**N.B**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Extensions

> `v0.36.0` marks the switch of some of our internal modules to [a new JavaScript extension API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). We expect this change to make the process of developing internal JavaScript modules and advanced JavaScript extensions easier and more streamlined in the future. Although this switch to a new API does not introduce breaking changes for existing extensions yet, we anticipate deprecating the current extension API at an undecided point in the future.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`v0.36.0` marks the switch of some of our internal modules to [a new Go/JavaScript module API](https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/#advanced-javascript-extension). We expect this change to make the process of developing internal JavaScript modules and advanced JavaScript extensions easier and more streamlined in the future. Although this switch to a new API does not introduce breaking changes for existing extensions yet, we anticipate deprecating the current extension API at an undecided point in the future.
```

For more details, see: [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).

## Breaking changes

### Restricting file opening to init context

> Opening files is now restricted to the init context of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script (`__VU==0`). While it was somewhat possible to open files *only* in other *VUs* (*e.g* `__VU==2`) in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario. This means that you can still open files only for some VUs, but you need to have opened all of those files in the initial VU (`__VU==0`).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Opening files is now restricted to the [Init context](https://k6.io/docs/using-k6/test-life-cycle/#init-and-vu-stages) of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script (`__VU==0`). While it was somewhat possible to open files *only* in other *VUs* (*e.g* `__VU==2`) in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario. This means that you can still open files only for some VUs, but you need to have opened all of those files in the initial VU (`__VU==0`).
```
Just a proposal, I don't know if it's really required

Author: Perfect! Cheers 🦖

> The following statement, unless the `arr.json` file is opened somewhere else, will now throw an error:

Reviewer 3: This warning no longer matches the script example below, not sure what the original was

```javascript 
let file;

if (__VU == 0) {
  open("./file1.bin")
  open("./file2.bin")
} else if (__VU % 2 == 0) {
  file = open("./file1.bin")
} else {
  file = open("./file2.bin")
}

export default () => {
  // use file for something
}
```

## Bugs Fixed!

* We addressed an issue uncovered by [our community](https://community.k6.io/t/v0-35-0-grpc-server-reflection-error/2383), which kept our users from using GRPC with multiple services definition in a single *proto* file. This issue was solved in [#2265](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2265).
* Thanks to the contribution of [@Resousse](https://github.com/Resousse), we've now updated k6's [`go-ntlmssp`](https://github.com/Azure/go-ntlmssp) dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

## Maintenance

- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).

> - [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to k6's code. It also revamped our Makefile, so the new `make ci-like-lint` target will run the exact same [golangci-lint](https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint) version that will be used in our GitHub Actions CI pipeline.
```

> - [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal of external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

Reviewer 5: Should we mention and remember that we don't have any sort of breaking-change policy for this API?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal of external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant REST API, and deprecated the `api.v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.
```
one more minor things

> - We have updated our Goja dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- We have updated our Goja dependency, our JS interpreter, to its latest available version. We are, unfortunately, not ready to integrate some of the new features it supports just yet. Namely, Goja now supports the [optional chaining](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Optional_chaining) syntax, but the Babel version we use presently does not. See [#2317](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2317) and [#2238](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2238).
```
Just for consistency :)

> - [#2312](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2312) upgraded `loadimpact/k6` docker image base to Alpine *3.15*.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [#2312](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2312) upgraded [loadimpact/k6](https://hub.docker.com/r/loadimpact/k6) docker image base to Alpine *3.15*.
```

Reviewer 4: + isn't it a policy to add usernames in these cases? Others are mentioned it seems...

Thus, given an `imported.js` module such as:
```javascript
export function f1() {
  throw "line 2";
}

export function f2() {
  throw "line 6";
}

export function f3() {
  throw "line 10";
}
```

and a k6 test script importing it as such:
```javascript
import { f2 } from "./imported.js"

export default function() {
  f2();
}
```

Previous versions of k6 would report an error stacktrace indicating an invalid line number in `imported.js` (*10*):
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:10:61(2))
        at file:///some/path/sourcemap.js:4:20(4)  executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

Starting with `v0.36.0` and source maps support, k6 would now report the exception at the correct line in `imported.js`:  
```
ERRO[0000] line 6
        at f2 (file:///some/path/imported.js:6:2(2))
        at file:///some/path/loadtest.js:4:2(4)
        at native  executor=per-vu-iterations scenario=default source=stacktrace
```

#### Temporary caveat

> - If the set of scripts imported by K6 is bigger  

Reviewer 3: Something is missing here :sweat_smile:

Author: Hehe indeed. I started writing it, only to realize I was sure what I should write, and decided to ask @yorugac [instead](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2340#discussion_r787663394) 😸

### Ability to abort tests ([#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093))

Thanks to the contribution of [@gernest](https://github.com/gernest), k6 now has the ability to abort a test. [#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093) made the `k6/execution` expose the `test.abort()` function, which allows to immediately abort a k6 load test run with the exit code `108`. Note that aborting a test is also fully supported in k6 cloud, preserving the same user-experience for both local and cloud users. 

> Aborting is possible during initialization:
> ```javascript
> import exec from "k6/execution";
> exec.test.abort();
> ```
> 
> As well as inside the default function:

Reviewer 3: You already mention "Or during the VU initialization" below

```suggestion
Aborting is possible in the VU context:
```

```javascript
import exec from "k6/execution";

export default function() {
  // Note that you can abort with a specific message too
  exec.test.abort("this is the reason");
}

export function teardown() {
  console.log("teardown will still be called after test.abort()");
}
```

> Or during the VU initialization:

Reviewer 3: Not sure we should really mention this. This was always possible with just `throw new Error()` in the init context, and there are rarely good reasons for it anyway :man_shrugging:

  exec.test.abort();
}

export default function() {}
```

### k6 inspect extended output ([#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279))

Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, by deriving k6's configuration from the execution context, and including  the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields to the output.

### Forcing HTTP/1 protocol ([#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222))

Thanks to the work of [@sjordhani22](https://github.com/sjordhani22), [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force k6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 

It can be done by setting the `http2client=0` value in the `GODEBUG` environment variable:

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**Nota Bene**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Breaking changes

### Restricting file opening to init context

> Opening files is now restricted to the init context. While it was somewhat possible, yet [unreliably](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771), to open files during other stages of the test in the past: [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario.

Author: I have rephrased accordingly. Let me know if that fits what you would have expected 🤞🏻

> Statements such as the following, will now throw an error.

Reviewer: unless `arr.json` wasn't opened somewhere else, see [old workarounds](https://k6.io/docs/examples/data-parameterization/#old-workarounds) in the data parameterization documentation

Author: I have rephrased, let me know if that works for you. Otherwise, please propose an alternative, as I'm not totally sure I get the fine context and details of this yet 🐻

> Opening files is now restricted to the init context of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script. While it was somewhat possible to open files during other stages of the test in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Opening files is now restricted to the init context of the VU that's initialized to get the options from the script(__VU==0). While it was somewhat possible to open files *only* in other VUs (for example `__VU == 2`) in the past, it was [unreliable](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771). [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314) ensures that k6 would now throw an error in a similar scenario. This still means that you can open files only for some VUs, but you need to have opened all of those files in the initial VU (__VU==0).
```

Maybe it will be better to have another example like 
```
let file;
if (__VU == 0) {
  open("./file1.bin")
  open("./file2.bin")
} else if (__VU % 2 == 0) {
  file = open("./file1.bin")
} else {
  file = open("./file2.bin")
}
export default () => {
  // use file for something
}
```

k6 v0.36.0 is here! 🎉 It introduces a couple new features which enhance its usability, and includes a bunch of fixes and the result of refactoring ongoing efforts.

In total, we have closed 27 issues.

## New Features!

### Sourcemaps support ([#2082](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2082))

// TODO: Ask @MStoykov for support on this

### Ability to abort tests ([#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093))

> Thanks to the contribution of [@gernest](https://github.com/gernest), K6 now has the ability to abort a test. [#2093](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2093) made the `k6/execution` exposes the `test.abort()` function, which allows to immediately abort a K6 load test run with the exit code `108`.

Author: Good catch! I didn't know about the lowercase k 🙇🏻

Aborting is possible during initialization:
```javascript
import exec from "k6/execution";
exec.test.abort();
```

As well as inside the default function:
```javascript
import exec from "k6/execution";

export default function() {
  // Note that you can abort with a specific message too
  exec.test.abort("this is the reason");
}

export function teardown() {
  console.log("teardown will still be called after test.abort()");
}
```

Or during the VU initialization:
```javascript
import exec from "k6/execution";

// This won't fail on initial parsing of the script, but on VU initialization.
if (__VU == 1) {
  exec.test.abort();
}

export default function() {}
```

> 

Reviewer 4: It might make sense to add a note about cloud execution too: ~ `Aborting the test is also fully supported in k6 Cloud, keeping the same UX for both local and cloud users`. AFAIK, it _was_ a major part of the work there :smile:

### k6 inspect extended output ([#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279))

> Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, the configuration k6 derived from the execution context, and will also expose the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Following [#2279](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2279), the `k6 inspect` command now supports an `--execution-requirements` flag. When used, the command's output will include fields related to the execution requirements, by deriving k6 configuration from the execution context and including the `maxVUs` and `totalDuration` fields to the output.
```

### Forcing HTTP/1 protocol ([#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222))

> Thanks to the work of [@sjordhani22](https://github.com/sjordhani22), [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force K6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Thanks to the work of @sjordhani22, [#2222](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2222) made it possible to force K6 to use version 1.1 of the protocol when firing HTTP requests. 
```
GitHub should resolve the mention automatically

Author: I prefer to leave it as a plain Markdown link if that's okay with you. It both ensures that the link is present in the repo's markdown file itself. Also as a courtesy, as this might contribute to the search engine's ranking score of the person.

It can be done by setting the `http2client=0` value in the `GODEBUG` environment variable:

```
GODEBUG=http2client=0 k6 run testscript.js
```

**Nota Bene**: the usage of the `GODEBUG` variable is considered temporary, and expected to change in the future. If you start using this feature, keep an eye out for potential future changes.

## Bugs Fixed!

* We had a long-standing issue ([#1771](https://github.com/grafana/k6/issues/1771)) making opening large files in the context of a k6 script somewhat unreliable under specific conditions in the past. This has now been addressed by [#2314](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2314).

> * We addressed an issue uncovered by [our community](https://community.k6.io/t/v0-35-0-grpc-server-reflection-error/2383), which kept our users using GRPC to define multiple services in a single *proto* file. This issue was addressed by [#2265](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2265).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* We addressed an issue uncovered by [our community](https://community.k6.io/t/v0-35-0-grpc-server-reflection-error/2383), which kept our users from using GRPC with multiple services definition in a single *proto* file. This issue was solved in [#2265](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2265).
```

> * Thanks to the contribution of [@Resousse](https://github.com/Resousse), we've now updated K6's `go-ntlmssp` dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Thanks to the contribution of @Resousse], we've now updated k6's `go-ntlmssp` dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 
```

Author: I prefer to leave it as a plain Markdown link if that's okay with you. It both ensures that the link is present in the repo's markdown file itself. Also as a courtesy, as this might contribute to the search engine's ranking score of the person.

Reviewer 5: I'm fine with it if the contributors' detection in the release page works fine with it. But I don't know how to check without releasing a new version. If you need an example, you can check the `contributors` section in [v0.35.0](https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v0.35.0).

Reviewer 5: I'm fine with it if the contributors' detection in the release page works fine with it. But I don't know how to check without releasing a new version. If you need an example, you can check the contributors section in v0.35.0.

Author: I must admit I didn't really understand what you meant with your follow up comment :slightly_smiling_face: The markdown file ends up being converted to HTML at the end of the pipeline. That's true whether Github does that on their page-generation step, or if we directly embed an actual Markdown HTML link in the markdown file. The content of the Markdown file will be copied verbatim in the release page when we do the release (I assume). So I think it should work as expected; assuming I understood your point correctly of course :bow:

Author: You mentioned in a private context:

> What I meant is that I'm not sure GitHub is able to populate the contributors section, e.g look at the end of the page https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v0.35.0
4:11
> that section is automatically generated by github collecting all the mentions

I've looked into it and couldn't find any proper answer. Thus, I'll fall back to what you proposed which is the only documented format... 🤝

> * Thanks to the contribution of [@Resousse](https://github.com/Resousse), we've now updated K6's `go-ntlmssp` dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Thanks to the contribution of [@Resousse](https://github.com/Resousse), we've now updated K6's [go-ntlmssp](https://github.com/Azure/go-ntlmssp) dependency. The updating PR [#2290](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2290) indeed fixes issues with NTLM Authentication backends returning two authorization headers. 
```

> ## Maintenance

Reviewer 4: There was also a contributor's PR for alpine image: https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2312
It wasn't tagged for 0.36 properly before :disappointed: I just fixed that now.
I think it should be added in the section here.

> - `v0.36.0` marks the switch to a new JS module's internal API. All our official JS modules have now been ported to this new version, which should make the process of developing modules easier and more streamlined in the future. See for more details:  [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `v0.36.0` marks the switch to a new JS module's internal API. Most of our official JS modules have now been ported to this new version, which should make the process of developing modules easier and more streamlined in the future. See for more details:  [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).
```
`grpc` hasn't been migrated yet

Author: Hehe, I was hesitant indeed, and didn't go to verify all of them one by one. Thanks for the heads up 🙇🏻

> - `v0.36.0` marks the switch to a new JS module's internal API. Most of our official JS modules have now been ported to this new version, which should make the process of developing modules easier and more streamlined in the future. See for more details: [#2243](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2243), [#2241](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2241), [#2239](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2239), [#2242](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2242), [#2226](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2226), and [#2232](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2232).

Reviewer 4: Perhaps, this should be in a separate section :thinking: It is a rather large change, with impact on xk6 extensions. Maybe with some additional details too, e.g. snippet with the new interface. WDYT?

Author: You're probably right! As I'm not too familiar with its history, I was hesitant to make it a "breaking change", as I couldn't judge how much breaking it actually was. Also, the documentation doesn't seem to be using the new API: https://k6.io/docs/extensions/guides/create-an-extension/, so I was unsure if we planned to talk about it yet.

cc @na-- what do you think?

Reviewer 3: :+1: for a separate section. Not sure how to format it exactly, since it's not quite a breaking change **yet**, but we plan to deprecate it in the future... :confused: Maybe we can just have a new top-level section of this document called `Extensions`, where we both announce any new official extensions (like [these](https://github.com/grafana/k6/blob/master/release%20notes/v0.35.0.md#new-xk6-extensions)) and also announce k6 changes that affect existing extensions? :thinking:

Author: Alright, I'll move it into a dedicated `Extensions` section. Also adding the info that although it is not a breaking change yet, deprecation are to be expected in the future in favor of this new API.

Author: I've made changes according to your comments. Could you take a 👀  @yorugac and @na--, and tell me if that works for you 🙇🏻?

- We have refactored our implementation of the RampingVU executor, for better clarity and maintainability. See [#2155](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2155).
- [#2316](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2316) relaxed quite a few of the code linting rules we applied to K6's code.

> - [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) removed external dependencies from K6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API: allowing us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) ~~removed~~ external dependencies from K6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API: allowing us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.
```
IIRC, we didn't really remove the dependency, we just deprecated some methods and we will remove when https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2313 will be merged.

Author: My bad then, I thought I remembered we proceeded with actually removing it. Thanks for the heads up 🙇🏻

Reviewer 6: Yep, it's going to be removed in the next release.

This version deprecates the `(api.v1)client.Call` method. Instead, there is a new version `client.CallAPI`.

Author: I updated the notes accordingly, thanks a lot @olegbespalov that was super helpful 🙇🏻

> - [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api.v1)client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [#2304](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/2304) prepared the removal external dependencies from k6's JSONAPI compliant Rest API, and deprecated the `api/v1`'s `client.Call` method in favor of its newer `client.CallAPI` counterpart. It allows us to both reduce our reliance on external dependencies and improve its maintainability.
```
